GitHub chearsheet
Git - Version Control System
	tool too track the change in code


 use - Track the history
	Collaborate
	

GitHub - Website helps to store and manage our code using GIT.
	Folder like structure (Repo)
	Also can see the other peoples code and make a copy.
	

Read.ME Files -- File with details about the project.
clone -- cloning a repository on our local system.
	
steps to clone -1. go to repository
		2. copy the HTTP link under code button
		3. create a new folder on system and navigate the folder in terminal.
		4. use command git clone <http Link>

git status - show the status of repo
git add <file name > / git add . -add the changes made
git commit -m < message /comment> -  commits or saved like event
git push origin main -  finalise or push the changes to GitHub		

Status - 
	untrack -  new file ..git doesn't yet track
	modified - changed file
	stagged - file ready to commit
	unmodified - unchanged file

Init - command use to create a GitHub repo existing project on local system.
	git init
	
	

Branch - diff departments
branch - allows to multiple users to work on same project.

to get branch - git branch
to create branch - git branch "branch name"
to renew branch name - git branch -m "new-name"
to delete branch name - git branch -d "branch name"
to navigate another branch - git checkout branch-name
to create and navigate another branch at a time - git checkout -b branch-name


to commit - git push origin branch-name

how to merge - 
1. manual 
	1. to check the diff git diff branch-name
	2. git merge branch-name

2. By Pull request - 
	1. add a pull request is to merge 
	2. use pull command - git pull origin main

merge conflicts - git fails to merge the branches automatically due to merge conflicts 


Undoing Changes - when we add or commit some changes and later on want to delete those changes we can use following commands.
1. when changes are added but not commited - git reset file-name // for 1 file
					     git reset // for multiple files at a time

2. When changes are added and commited -git reset HEAD~1


git log // to see all commits


3. multiple commits undo - git reset hash-code-commit
			   git reset --hard hash-code-commit



fork - it is like copy of a repo with same code and setting. like a rough copy





